If we have a look at our strategy, we implemented steps 1, 2, 3 and 5 but we're not storing the fetched data
in the cache,
so this is what I want to do right now.
Back in our project, we have code in feed.js,
so in our normal Javascript code where we reach out to the cache to get data and reach out to the network,
however we don't have dynamic caching in place here with that strategy alone.
Well actually we do because in the sw.js file,
we still have our network first strategy taking effect.
Well let's comment this out and let's comment
our other strategy back in, which is cache then network.
Now actually, I want to copy that and replace it with a different strategy which fits our general strategy,
the one where we already added code in feed.js
.
So I want to implement the cache then network strategy also from the service worker side.
So for that, what I need to do is I will simply add some code here,
basically get rid of the old code and instead in respond with, I'll call caches open,
now the question is which cache do I open?
You could create a new one,
I'm going to use the dynamic one for this because it's not static, it's not what I'm storing at the install
state,
it's something I want to install once I did fetch it with my cache then network strategy
and initially when I first load this app,
this simply is empty because I haven't visited any pages.
So now cache is open and in there, I now can call function or call then I pass my function with the
cache which was opened and on that cache, I now want to store the response I get back. Now for that, I will
simply return the fetch request which we intercepted here and I will restore a return event request,
so that is the fetch request
I want to make, I'll return it, however I'll chain a
then call too
because of course, I want to use the response which this gives me.
So keep in mind, this intercept any requests sent by my front-end, by my other Javascript files including
the fetch request I'm making here in the feed.js file.
So this gets intercepted and once I got the response here in the service worker,
I want to put it into my cache,
so cache put event request and clone the response as before because the response of course also should be
returned so that it reaches my feed.js
file
otherwise it's not really in the cache then network strategy,
we have to let this response pass through. With this in place, we're making sure that we do reach out
to the cache first,
if it's there, if the item is there, we display it immediately,
we make a network request nonetheless.
Once the response is back from the network, if it's a valid response, we store it here in the cache,
if it's not, we don't do anything with it
but then we still have something served from the cache. If we don't have it in the cache and we can't get
it from the network,
well there's nothing we can do.
So with this in place, let me also update the static cache since I change the feed.js and
then let's reload the page to install the service worker
and let's quickly reopen the tab to activate it
and now let's have a look at it.
If I load it, everything works, if I go to application here and refresh the cache storage, you'll see that
under dynamic, we get a lot of content there, it's fetching a lot of stuff
and on the static, we also have the old content.
Now the reason why we have that much content in the dynamic storage is that with our strategy, we're
also re-caching everything we already pre-cached. The reason for that obviously is that on every request
we make, we intercept in the service worker here, we simply put a copy of the response into our cache.
Now before with the dynamic caching, we also did this but we only did it if we didn't find an entry
in the cache yet
and of course we did find an entry for all the pre-cached files.
Now we're no longer checking if there is an entry in the cache already,
we put a copy into the cache anyways.
Now of course you could fine tune this to check if there is a place, a copy in the cache already and then
not do it but you could argue you want to do it under all circumstances because you want to update outdated
data with that strategy,
so I will show you a different solution for this later when we actually parse the URL of the request
and then decide which caching strategy to use.
For now it's not optimal but it does work,
however one thing this strategy won't do can be seen if we go offline.
Now the application is offline even though our cache is filled with stuff.
Now let's investigate this in the next lecture.